Database is storage which is persistent and is used to store info related to the website.It database is an organized collection of structured information, or data, typically stored electronically in a computer system
DBMS is Database management system.Its types are RDBMS and NoSQL

RDBMS- Items in a relational database are organized as a set of tables with columns and rows. Relational database technology provides the most efficient and flexible way to access structured information.

NoSQL- A NoSQL, or nonrelational database, allows unstructured and semistructured data to be stored and manipulated (in contrast to a relational database, which defines how all data inserted into the database must be composed).

Operations in SQL DB:

Create: It is used to create the table and define the attributed with constraints.Ex:
CREATE Table Emp(name varchar(15),salary int)

Retrieve: It is used to extract rows from the table based on some condition
SELECT * FROM table_name;

Update: It is used to udate a set of rows or a specific row according to the given condition
UPDATE Emp
SET name = 'Harshit'
	WHERE empID = 1;

Delete command is used to delete a specific row or  set of rows
 DELETE FROM Emp WHERE name='Harshit';

Types of Relationship:
1)one-one: Such a relationship exists when each record of one table is related to only one record of the other table.Ex : Person and Passport

2) one-many:Such a relationship exists when each record of one table can be related to one or more than one record of the other table. This relationship is the most common relationship found. A one-to-many relationship can also be said as a many-to-one relationship depending upon the way we view it.
Exmple Person and Bank Account
      
3)many-many:Such a relationship exists when each record of the first table can be related to one or more than one record of the second table and a single record of the second table can be related to one or more than one record of the first table.
Example Product and Customer

Constraints:
SQL constraints are used to specify rules for the data in a table.Constraints can be specified when the table is created with the CREATE TABLE statement, or after the table is created with the ALTER TABLE statement.
Examples are :
NOT NULL - Ensures that a column cannot have a NULL value
UNIQUE - Ensures that all values in a column are different
PRIMARY KEY - A combination of a NOT NULL and UNIQUE. Uniquely identifies each row in a table
FOREIGN KEY - Uniquely identifies a row/record in another table
CHECK - Ensures that all values in a column satisfies a specific condition
DEFAULT - Sets a default value for a column when no value is specified
INDEX - Used to create and retrieve data from the database very quickly
We can create our own contraints names for better identification of where the error has occur in query.

SQL JOINS:
A JOIN clause is used to combine rows from two or more tables, based on a related column between them.
Different Types of SQL JOINs:
The different types of the JOINs in SQL:

(INNER) JOIN: Returns records that have matching values in both tables
LEFT (OUTER) JOIN: Returns all records from the left table, and the matched records from the right table
RIGHT (OUTER) JOIN: Returns all records from the right table, and the matched records from the left table
FULL (OUTER) JOIN: Returns all records when there is a match in either left or right table


SQL UNION:
The UNION operator is used to combine the result-set of two or more SELECT statements.

SELECT column_name(s) FROM table1
		UNION ALL
		SELECT column_name(s) FROM table2;
		
Version Control System :
Version control systems are a category of software tools that help a software team manage changes to source code over time. Version control software keeps track of every modification to the code in a special kind of database. If a mistake is made, developers can turn back the clock and compare earlier versions of the code to help fix the mistake while minimizing disruption to all team members.
Types of Version Control Systems:

1.Local Version Control Systems
2.Centralized Version Control Systems
3.Distributed Version Control Systems

Local Version Control Systems: It is one of the simplest forms and has a database that kept all the changes to files under revision control. RCS is one of the most common VCS tools. It keeps patch sets (differences between files) in a special format on disk. By adding up all the patches it can then re-create what any file looked like at any point in time.

Centralized Version Control Systems: Centralized version control systems contain just one repository and each user gets their own working copy. You need to commit to reflecting your changes in the repository. It is possible for others to see your changes by updating.

Two things are required to make your changes visible to others which are:

1.You commit
2.They update

It has some downsides as well which led to the development of DVS. The most obvious is the single point of failure that the centralized repository represents if it goes down during that period collaboration and saving versioned changes is not possible. What if the hard disk of the central database becomes corrupted, and proper backups haven’t been kept? You lose absolutely everything.

Distributed version control systems contain multiple repositories. Each user has their own repository and working copy. Just committing your changes will not give others access to your changes. This is because commit will reflect those changes in your local repository and you need to push them in order to make them visible on the central repository. Similarly, When you update, you do not get other’s changes unless you have first pulled those changes into your repository.

To make your changes visible to others, 4 things are required:

You commit
You push
They pull
They update

Some commands of git are :

1) git init:used to start a new repository.
	git init

2)git add: adds a file to the staging area in repository.
	git add [file]  or git add .to add all the files

3)git commit: records or snapshots the file permanently in the version history.
	git commit -m “Message”  

4)git clone:used to obtain a repository from an existing URL and downloads the files and also the .git file.

	git clone <url>  

6)git push: sends the committed changes of master branch to your remote repository.
	git push <remote name> master  

7)git pull: fetches and merges changes on the remote server to your working directory.
	git pull <url>

