cloud:

ADVANTAGES OF CLOUD COMPUTING:

1--->Trade capital expense for variable expense
2--->Benefit from massive economies of scale
3--->Stop guessing capacity
4--->Increase speed and agility
5--->Stop spending money running and maintaining data centers
6--->Go global in minutes
  ex: machine---->server(3)
  
      Client---LoadBalancer(IP)--->server(1,2,3)
	  purchasing these machines for cost,quality,maintanace
  

SAAS MODEL(SOFTWARE AS SERVICE):
PAAS MODERL(PLOTTFORM SERVICE):
IAAS MODEL(INFRA STRUCTURE SERVICE):

1)IAAS :-Infrastructure as a service (IaaS) is a cloud computing offering in which 
a vendor provides users access to computing resources such as servers, storage and networking.
Organizations use their own platforms and applications within a service provider's infrastructure.

ex:-Amazon(EC2) ,Aws,Google computing engine .


2)PAAS :-In the Platform-as-a-Service (PaaS) model, developers essentially rent everything they need to build 
an application, relying on a cloud provider for development tools, infrastructure, and operating systems.
This is one of the three service models of cloud computing.

ex:-online compilers ,w3school,Mysql by Aws IRDS .



3)SAAS:-Software as a service (SaaS) is a software distribution model in which a third-party provider hosts 
applications and makes them available to customers over the Internet. 
SaaS is one of three main categories of cloud computing, alongside infrastructure as a service and platform 
as a service (IaaS and PaaS).


ex:-Google drive,Zoom video call,office365 .

-] Two Services Through Aws :-

*] Auto scaling :-Helps you to reintialize the instance if your instance get killed or crashed.
   ---------->(desired value=1,Maximum value=1,Minimum value=1)-------->can be changed as per requirement.
     ------>Step scaling  (Add 10 Machine together)
   ------->Simple scaling (step by step machine adding)
ex:- Autosaciling Params:-(ec1,host1,host2,host3)
     >10000 request/network ------>create one more instance (can be changed as per requirement)
     <2000 request/network ------> delete one instance  (can be changed as per requirement)


 *]Load Balancer(lb) :- (2server)
 lb-------->Round robin (s1,s2)
 Balancing server load equally using round robin algorithm.

 *] Practically we use both together in project implementation .
 client------>LB-------->(AutoScailing) (Target group)
 AutoScailing is basically good when load is known.

-]DNS Mapping is supported by aws to hide the functionality(approach) from the end user.

 5 essential Characteristics For cloud computing :-

1)on demand self services ------->Cloud computing provides resources on demand, i.e. when the consumer wants it.
 This is made possible by self-service and automation. 
Self-service means that the consumer performs all the actions needed to acquire 
the service herself, instead of going through an IT department.
(not any human interaction).



2)Broad N/w access --------->
Broad network access refers to resources hosted in a private cloud network (operated within a company's firewall) 
that are available for access from a wide range of devices.(portable to any devices(mobile,laptop etc)) 



3)Resource pooling ------->Resource pooling allows cloud providers to pool large-scale IT resources to serve 
multiple cloud consumers. 
Different physical and virtual IT resources are dynamically assigned and reassigned according to cloud consumer demand, 
typically followed by execution through statistical multiplexing. 
ex:-  (0.200)------->Huge hardware /software resource availability.



4)Rapid elasticity --------> Rapid elasticity is a cloud computing term for scalable provisioning, or 
the ability to provide scalable services. 
Experts point to this kind of scalable model as one of five fundamental aspects of cloud computing.
(scale up,scale down)--------->ex:- (website only launching olympics game live streaming )



5)Measured service ---------> This is a reference to services where the cloud provider measures or monitors 
the provision of services for various reasons, i
ncluding billing, effective use of resources, or overall predictive planning.
(Details about the usage as Measurement for record ).

 This cloud model promotes availability and is composed of five essential characteristics
 (On-demand self-service, Broad network access, Resource pooling, Rapid elasticity, Measured Service); 
 three service models (Cloud Software as a Service (SaaS), Cloud Platform as a Service (PaaS), Cloud Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS)); and,
 four deployment models (Private cloud, Community cloud, Public cloud, Hybrid cloud). 
 Key enabling technologies include: (1) fast wide-area networks, (2) powerful, inexpensive server computers, and (3) high-performance virtualization for commodity hardware. 
 
