-->--> >CLOUD-->--> >
The practice of using a network of remote servers hosted on the Internet to store, manage, and process data, rather than a local server or a personal computer.
Cloud computing is the delivery of different services through the Internet. These resources include tools and applications like data storage, servers, databases, networking, and software.
As long as an electronic device has access to the web, it has access to the data and the software programs to run it.

Characteristics-->
 
1)on demand self services -->
Cloud computing provides resources on demand, i.e. when the consumer wants it. This is made possible by self-service and automation. 
Self-service means that the consumer performs all the actions needed to acquire the service herself, instead of going through an IT department.
(not any human interaction).

2)Broad N/w access -->
Broad network access refers to resources hosted in a private cloud network (operated within a company's firewall) 
that are available for access from a wide range of devices.(portable to any devices(mobile,laptop etc)) 

3)Resource pooling -->
Resource pooling allows cloud providers to pool large-scale IT resources to serve multiple cloud consumers. 
Different physical and virtual IT resources are dynamically assigned and reassigned according to cloud consumer demand, 
typically followed by execution through statistical multiplexing. 
ex:-  (0.200)-->Huge hardware /software resource availability.

4)Rapid elasticity --> Rapid elasticity is a cloud computing term for scalable provisioning, or the ability to provide scalable services. 
Experts point to this kind of scalable model as one of five fundamental aspects of cloud computing.
(scale up,scale down)-->ex:- (website only launching olympics game live streaming )

5)Measured service --> 
This is a reference to services where the cloud provider measures or monitors the provision of services for various reasons, i
ncluding billing, effective use of resources, or overall predictive planning.
(Details about the usage as Measurement for record ).

6)Multi Tenacity -->
Multiple customers of a cloud vendor are using the same computing resources.
Despite the fact that they share resources, cloud customers aren't aware of each other, and their data is kept totally separate.

-->Types of Cloud services

1)IAAS :-Infrastructure as a service (IaaS) is a cloud computing offering in which a vendor provides users access to computing resources such as servers, storage and networking.
Organizations use their own platforms and applications within a service provider's infrastructure.
ex:-Amazon(EC2) ,Aws,Google computing engine .

2)PAAS :-In the Platform-as-a-Service (PaaS) model, developers essentially rent everything they need to build an application, relying on a cloud provider for development tools, infrastructure, and operating systems.
This is one of the three service models of cloud computing.
ex:-online compilers ,w3school,Mysql by Aws IRDS .

3)SAAS:-Software as a service (SaaS) is a software distribution model in which a third-party provider hosts applications and makes them available to customers over the Internet. 
SaaS is one of three main categories of cloud computing, alongside infrastructure as a service and platform as a service (IaaS and PaaS).
ex:-Google drive,Zoom video call,office365 .


COMMUNICATION between CLIENT and SERVER  ???


CLIENT------------------------>LOAD BALANCER------------------------>SERVER
reruests -->	                software/hardware       	          (s1,s2,s3)

LOADBALANCER:--
+ Loadbalancer handle all the requests from the client and send it to the server using algorithm to balance the load.
  popular algorithm to handle the requests is round robin algorithm.
+  Multiple Microservice : Each microservice can have a seprate loadbalancer.

DIFFERENT TYPES OF SERVERS :----
Developmet server
+ This server is used to develop,test and deploy the projects by the developer.

Production server
+ This server is used by the admin people to finally deploy the project from development server


ADVANTAGES
+ Flexiblity
+ Disaster Recovery
+ Automatics software Updates
+ Capatial Expenditure Free
+ Capacity / Scaling
+ Increased speed and Agilty
+ Increased collobaration
+ Security



--------:SCALING :---------
AutoScaling : Reinitializing instances automatically

Scaleup policy: Increase in instances/machines/servers.
		In  upscaling if No. of requests or networkIn or (it could be any parameters set) based on which it increases
		 the Number of instances/machines/servers automatically for max limit we have set. Ex 5 instances.
		 Parameters include 1) Network 2)Cpu usage
		 
ScaleDown policy: Decrease in instance/machines/servers.
		In  ScaleDown if No. of requests or networkIn or (it could be any parameters set) based on which it Decreases 
		the Number of instances/machines/servers automatically for min limit we have set. Ex 2 instances.
