A relational model can be represented as a table of rows and columns. A relational database has following major components:
1. Table
2. Record or Tuple
3. Field or Column name or Attribute
4. Domain
5. Instance
6. Schema
7. Keys

Data Integrity:

There are the following categories of data integrity exist with each RDBMS:

Entity integrity: It specifies that there should be no duplicate rows in a table.

Domain integrity: It enforces valid entries for a given column by restricting the type, the format, or the range of values.

Referential integrity: It specifies that rows cannot be deleted, which are used by other records.

User-defined integrity: It enforces some specific business rules that are defined by users. These rules are different from entity, domain or referential integrity.

Normalization:

Normalization is the process of organizing the data in the database.
Normalization is used to minimize the redundancy from a relation or set of relations.
It is also used to eliminate the undesirable characteristics like Insertion, Update and Deletion Anomalies.
Normalization divides the larger table into the smaller table and links them using relationship.
The normal form is used to reduce redundancy from the database table

Primary Key:
A primary key is used to ensure data in the specific column is unique. 
It is a column cannot have NULL values. It is either an existing table column or a column that is specifically generated by the database according to a defined sequence.

Foreign Key:
A foreign key is a column or group of columns in a relational database table that provides a link between data in two tables. 
It is a column (or columns) that references a column (most often the primary key) of another table.

The following are the various SQL clauses:
1.Group by
2. having
3. order by


Indexing in DBMS:

Indexing is used to optimize the performance of a database by minimizing the number of disk accesses required when a query is processed.
The index is a type of data structure. It is used to locate and access the data in a database table quickly.
