Programming Paradigms
Programming is a creative process carried out by programmers to instruct a computer on how to do a task.
A program is a set of instructions that tells a computer what to do in order to come up with a solution to a particular problem.
There are a number of alternative approaches to the programming process, referred to as programming paradigms.

Procedural Programming:

Procedural programming uses a list of instructions to tell the computer what to do step-by-step.
Procedural programming relies on - you guessed it - procedures, also known as routines or subroutines. A procedure contains a series of computational steps to be carried out. Procedural programming is also referred to as imperative programming.
Procedural programming languages are also known as top-down languages.

Object-Oriented Programming:

Object-oriented programming, or OOP, is an approach to problem-solving where all computations are carried out using objects.
An object is a component of a program that knows how to perform certain actions and how to interact with other elements of the program. 
Objects are the basic units of object-oriented programming. 

Component-Oriented Programming:

Component-oriented programming is a technique of developing software applications by combining pre-existing and new components, much the same way automobiles are built from other components.
Software components are self-contained, self-describing packages of functionality containing definitions of types that expose both behavior and data.

Service-Oriented Architecture:

Service-Oriented Architecture (SOA) is an architectural approach in which applications make use of services available in the network. 
In this architecture, services are provided to form applications, through a communication call over the internet.

SOA allows users to combine a large number of facilities from existing services to form applications.
SOA encompasses a set of design principles that structure system development and provide means for integrating components into a coherent and decentralized system.
SOA based computing packages functionalities into a set of interoperable services, which can be integrated into different software systems belonging to separate business domains.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

SOFTWARE TESTING USING JUNIT

JUnit is a combination of two words – Java and Unit Testing. Given the popularity of Java in software applications, JUnit has gained in popularity.

Best for Test-Driven Development (TDD) Environment: To take the least number of bugs to QA teams, many engineering teams pick a test-driven development cycle. 
Developers first perform tests, and issues are resolved, before taking the build for QA testing.
JUnit uses assertions in the tests, and assertions are most efficient when they fail. So, JUnit helps in the TDD build of the software.

Business driven development is a software development paradigm that focuses on the needs of the business over the tech.
It is designed for enterprise software, which differs markedly from consumer-facing apps.
BDD relies on modelling the needs of the business and uses these models to drive the design.

NOTE: Testing provides code coverage and all the results in a single file which can be used for analysis therefore it is important to
use a framework like junit.

 BasicAnnotations for Junit testing
The Junit 4.x framework is annotation based, so let's see the annotations that can be used while writing the test cases.

@Test annotation specifies that method is the test method.

@Test(timeout=1000) annotation specifies that method will be failed if it takes longer than 1000 milliseconds (1 second).

@BeforeClass annotation specifies that method will be invoked only once, before starting all the tests.

@Before annotation specifies that method will be invoked before each test.

@After annotation specifies that method will be invoked after each test.

@AfterClass annotation specifies that method will be invoked only once, after finishing all the tests.



