Day 6 

RDBMS is Relational Database Management system . It is tabular or structure form of data storage where data is stored in form
of rows and columns . 
Eah row depicts a tuple or a record and each column means attributes of the data 

To distinguish the records from each other use a Unique Key called as Primary key and it cann't be null . 

To manipuate or play with databases we use SQL ( Structuref Query Language ) 

in SQL we have Two Main Language 

1. DDL i.e Data Definition Language
2. DML i.e Data Manipulation Language

In DDL we have Commands like 

CREATE – Create an object 
DROP – This SQL DDL command helps to delete objects. ...
ALTER – Used to alter the existing database or its object structures.
TRUNCATE – This SQL DDL command removes records from tables.
RENAME – Renaming the database objects.

In DML we have 
SELECT – retrieve data from the a database.
INSERT – insert data into a table.
UPDATE – updates existing data within a table.
DELETE – deletes all records from a table, the space for the records remain.
MERGE – UPSERT operation (insert or update)

We have Learn all the commands and have executed them on Dumy Data Base 

There are 3 types of Relation that we can maintain Between Two Tables 

1. One - One  : Example Like One Identify card is associated with a specific individual 
2. One - Many : Example like One Manager manages more than one department in the organization 
3.Many - Many : Example like Students can enroll in multiple courses and each course have many enrollment . 

We also Discusssed How To Join Two Tables 

Various Join Are 

1. Inner Join 
2. Left Outer Join 
3. Right Outer Join 
4. Full Outer Join 

We have also performed various set Operations the database relations 

1. Union 
2. Union All 
3. Intersection 
4. Set Difference 

Now we can also Group the date using Group By Clause and Also Arrange them in certain order by using Order By clause . 

There are Some NoSQL Data bases Such as JSON or MongoDB  

