3 tier architecture  (used in client server system ) 

1. Presentation Tier / Logic 

First we have interface or client side presentation. It is basically the Fronte end Part of the server or User interface 
Like In Make My Trip when we visit we see many options as Booking Hotels . Flights , Trains and others . We also see the 
login Options 

2.  Business Tier / Logic 
.
In Middle we have combination of multiple tiers contains the functional business logic which drives an application’s core capabilities
Example : Implementing the Actual Booking , integrating various services provided by various providers etc .

3. Persistent Logic 

it is the End tier is the The relational database management system on the database server contains the computer data storage logic

When we work on Various Servers we have some terms as 

Fail Over : When one server fails then we need to send the load to server two and then the new server will be taking all the 
incoming requests and sends the response . 

Load Balancers : When we have many servers then we are using load balancers to distribute the load equally on the servers 
Cluster : collection of servers , 

=>Failover is the ability to seamlessly and automatically switch to a reliable backup system.

=>A redundant or standby database server, system, or other hardware component, server, or network 
should be ready to replace any previously active version upon its abnormal termination or failure

=>Cluster is a collection of server which work as a one unit. Each server will be taking the request alternatively so we say that all the servers are working simultaneously.

Example 

www.abc.com------->LoadBalancer------>server1 / server2
(20.10.10.12)			(20.10.10.10)/ (20.10.10.11)

Single Servers

	*Less Network Calls 
	*Small Code Base
	*Less Third Party Communication 
	*Less Load 
	
Distributed Server 
	*More Network Calls 
	*Large Code Base
	*There are third party dependencies(payment gateways)
	*Concurrency/load is high.
	
Monolithic vs Microservices 
Monolithic is the architecture where we have all the services in one unit. It is basically used when we need to develop
small software and when load is less 

Where as in microservices we divide the work in smaller units where each unit is responsible for performing different Fucntions
Each project and services are independent from each other at the code level.

As in Today's world we have very heavy web services needed to we go for Microservices over Monolithic 

Pros Are 

Independent service increase the speed of experimentation
Services can be build with diverse set of technologies
Services have independent cycles
Growth and scale of system becomes good
Separately portable
Less dependencies over central server
Debugging and maintenance will be easy
Flexible to make changes
Easier to track the progress

Cons Are 
Being more complicated than most monolithic applications
Requiring cultural changes
Often are more expensive than monoliths
Can present security threats

Microservices-based applications can better handle fault isolation and tolerance, but one of the 
advantages of monolithic architecture is that it's easier to test things when they're all in one place.
We another problem in Microservices is data consistency . as as each service has its own database and transaction management system.
